---
layout: post
title: Outfit Suggestion
---
In this quarter, Chengwei Hu and I completed an Outfit Recommendation application that can recommend daily wear for users. Please refer to this [repo link](https://github.com/KefanPing/Outfit_Recommendation_Project) for details. This blog is a reflection on this outfit recommended app.

This blog is written by us (Chengwei Hu and me) together.

## Inspiration

Do you sometimes (definitely not during the final exams week) stand in front of your closet and think deeply about "what should I wear today?!", "how do I pair up clothes today to make me more fashionable?!". Everyone defines fashion personally, but there are always some methods and ways that are fashionable for most people. What a person wears can also clearly show how that person's character and taste are. For people who don't have time to think about this, they may need to use an app to improve their sense of fashion, such as an outfit recommendation app. 

## Overall, what did you achieve in your project? 

- Overall, we have implemented a local app which can store photo of clothes owned by users and recommend what to wear (top, bottom, and shoes) daily. Our user interface is designed with PyQt5, and our recognition model is trained with TensorFlow. Our recommendation system is based on the rationality of the style and the degree of color combination. 
- At the beginning of the project, we continuously tried many different data sets and recognition ideas to increase the rationality of recognition and recommendation. In the end, we chose a data set from kaggle and decided to use four models to reduce the recognition error rate by slightly modifying the huge data set.
- When we designed our recommendation system, we wrote a lot of complex functions on the front-end and back-end models to identify, classify, record information, display information, and recommend combinations of users’ photos. In addition, we also provide buttons to delete and edit information. This reminds us of how we learned OOP before.

## What are aspects of your project that you are especially proud of? 

Kefan: The thing I am most proud of is that our app did help me sort out clothes and recommended me clothes combinations that I think are very fashionable.
Kefan: I use various apps on my computer and mobile phones every day, but this is the first time I have implemented an app by myself, and I think it is very useful.
Chengwei: Our subcategory identify model has 99% accuracy and other three models has average around 80% accuracy. I'm so proud of our images indentify models' accuracy.
Chengwei: I also proud of our app's functionality and UI design, our APP allow user insert the image, delet the cloth, edit the cloth feature before the generate the outfit combinations. And our UI has good looking and simple, as a user I feel so comfortable to use this APP.


## What are two things you would suggest doing to further improve your project? (You are not responsible for doing those things.) 

- Our design idea is actually more suitable for users to use on mobile phones. We have two ways to improve:
    The first method: Turn this local app into a web app so that users can use it not only on the computer, but also on the mobile phone.
    The second method: Make this app a mobile application (you can download it from the App store or Google store), but we need to learn a new programming language
- We also hope to continue to build a record system that can store the user's historical wear, not only to record fashion, but also to record the user's life. Our plan is to create a txt file to store the paths of clothes recommended in history. When the user wants to query the previous outfits, our program will extract the path from the txt and display them.


## How does what you achieved compare to what you set out to do in your proposal? (if you didn't complete everything in your proposal, that's fine!)

Looking at it now, our proposal is too ambitious. There are several things we mentioned in the proposal but they were not completed: 
- 1. We originally planned to involve some NLP content, such as analyzing what style of clothes people like to wear nowadays, what color combination is the most popular, etc. through news and social media.
- 2. We originally planned that our app can save the user's clothes information, but our current work requires the user to re-upload all clothes every time the app is opened.

## What are three things you learned from the experience of completing your project? Data analysis techniques? Python packages? Git + GitHub? Etc? 

- 1. We build our UI with PyQt5 package, it is a very convenient package to design the appearance of an UI. We learned how to connect an event to a button, display images in UI, get the imformation from user.

- 2. We build our mechine learning model with TensworFlow package. We learned the technique to build and trian a machine learning model by TensworFlow. We also found a very powerful resnet50 layer on the Keras website to help us improve the accuracy of the models.

- 3. We didn’t use GitHub much before. Through this project, we witnessed GitHub’s ability to edit files and manage files, and also saw the convenience of GitHub as a programmer community.

## How will your experience completing this project will help you in your future studies or career? Please be as specific as possible. 

Kefan: As a person who regards data science as a career plan, the computer vision model training and interactive app development carried out in this project gave me some initial experience in this field. As I said above, this is my first time writing a program, and this has brought me the experience of putting ideas into practice. In the process, I learned how to adjust our plan reasonably to improve the app. Since our project requires some knowledge beyond the class, this process also exercised my self-study ability, Through the study of PyQt5, I have more ideas for designing my own software in the future. In addition to the technical level, I also witnessed the strength of the team. During these two months, Chengwei and I have united our thoughts and acted together in the process of completing the project. A lot of our work is done together. In this process, everyone reminds and supplements each other, which greatly improves work efficiency. Communication in all work is the most important, and the information is processed in a timely, effective and clear manner.
Chengwei: We build and train some mechine learning models to help us to identify the images of cloth. We learned a lot of knowlegeds about how to built a mechine learning model such as: data collection and cleaning, prepare trainning,testing,validation dataset. Construct a machine learning model and train it, imporve machine learning model. This is a very valueable experience for my future career related to data sicence and machine learning.